Hopefully, at the midway
point through our exercises,
you're starting to develop
a little bit more confidence,
a little less tenseness over tackling
these algorithmic challenges.
And hopefully,
the takeaway that you're getting here is
that there's no writing the big
algorithm all at once, top down.
That it's always a tiny little series of
increments and improvements and additions.
It's little tiny Lego pieces that
we build on top of each other.
And that's how you see
me writing the code.
That's exactly the best
that I can recommend for
you as algorithmists as you go forward.
We're gonna transition
into the next exercise,
which is called Knight's Dialer.
This is a classic problem, and it has been
used in various big name
company job interviews.
FAANG-type companies have, at one time or
another, used problems like this.
So it's one of the classic ones,
and there are in fact linked in
the project repo on this workshop,
linked in the readme.
There's a link to a series of blog
post that an interviewer from
Amazon wrote about it and
about ways to approach it.
So I recommend you go and check those out,
read through those as further
research on this topic.
I've put put my own little
twist on the Knight's Dialer,
and I think it's gonna provide some nice,
meaty stuff for us to dig into.
And so, we'll be settled into
this exercise for a while.
There are several different
concepts that we wanna explore.
And we will push the envelope quite a bit,
but you're on firm ground now.
So even though it might start
to look a little unfamiliar,
don't lose that confidence,
you can do this.
What is the Knight's Dialer?
Building off of the concept
of the chessboard before,
it's kind of a nice little extension.
What if of our chessboard was actually the
numeric keypad from an old-school phone?
I'm old enough to remember when phones
actually had push buttons like this.
And I remember that there were phones that
didn't even have the little asterisk and
the star button, they were literally
just blank spaces like you see here.
So this is the theoretical setup,
obviously,
it's kind of a silly example,
it sits in a more theoretical space.
But it is gonna help us to learn
a lot of different concepts
within the broader DSA space.
The premise of this problem
is the knight piece,
the K-N-I-G-H-T piece,
in the game of chess.
For those of you that
are familiar with chess,
you know that the knight moves in
an L pattern, one over and two down.
And so we might think of the knight if
it were moving on a numeric keypad.
If it started on the 1 key, it might
move from the one key over to the 6 key,
or it might move from the 1
key down to the 8 key.
Those are the two places
that you could move as
a knight if you started on the 1 key.
Hopefully that make sense.
If you start on the 6 key,
where can you move?
>> 7, 1 or 0.
>> Not 4?
You said 4?
>> No, 7, 1 or 0.
>> You said or 0, I thought you said 4, 0.
[LAUGH]
>> I'm gonna show the action.
>> Correct 7,1 and also 0.
0 is a valid move, okay?
So what about the 5 key?
If you're on the 5 key,
where can you move?
No one, not a trick question,
it's pretty straightforward.
There's nowhere to move
if you're on the 5 key.
And vice versa, there's no other
key that could move to the 5 key.
So we could have just left it out, but
then that would have looked
like a really weird dial pad.
So we leave it in,
even though we're all gonna admit and
agree the 5 key doesn't really
matter in this problem.
So there are ten numbers, but really only
nine of them actually matter, you with me?
All right, the key question
that we need to start with is,
what are the nearby keys to me?
In other words, what are the places
that I can move, if I'm on the 1 key,
the answer is 6 and 8.
If I'm on the 2 key, the answer is 7 and
9, if I'm on the 6 key,
it's 1, 7, and 0, right?
So this notion of determining what are my
nearby keys, that's gonna be one core
thing that we need to solve,
that'll be one of our things.
And indeed, if you look at the code in
the repo, you'll see there's a todo for
us to figure out what are my nearby keys.
The second part of the problem
is knowing that information,
once I know what my nearby keys are.
If I started on any given key,
like the 1 key, and
I told you that you could make
a certain number of hops, like 4 or 20.
What are all of the possible
different paths that you might
take making all those jumps?
In fact,
how many different paths could you take,
if you started on a given key and
you made a certain number of jumps?
And the first thing that you should
observe about that is that I
could start on the 1 key and
jump to the 6th key.
And then I could jump right back to
the 1 key, that's a totally valid move.
So given only the count of
hops that I can take and
the starting key,
tell me the count of how many possible
different paths I could
take around this dial pad.
That's the classic statement
of the Knight's Dialer.
It's a counting problem, you with me?
We're not really asking you to draw out
all the pads or anything like that,
list them all out,
we're simply asking you to count them.
There are a lot of counting problems in
algorithmics, and this is one of them.
But here's where I've extended things
because there's a third kind of problem
that we might tackle within
the scope of Knight's Dialer.
It's one that I find more
interesting even than the counting.
Which is, what are the paths
that I can take from any
given starting key without
ever hitting any repeats?
In other words,
I'm not gonna allow 1, 6, 1.
I'm gonna have to go from 1, 6, and
then to 7, and then to 2, and then to 9.
What are those paths?
How many of those are there?
You with me?
That's an extension to this problem
that is not part of the normal classical
statement, but we're gonna track that.
So that'll be our third
part of this problem,
is we want to compute the unique paths.
Or there's another way of saying this
in DSA and computer science terms.
Which is to say that the paths that we're
counting are what we call cyclic paths,
meaning we allow cycles.
And we also want to enumerate,
or go through,
all of the acyclic paths,
meaning paths that do not have cycles.
So we are counting the cyclic
paths because there are many,
many, many, many more of those.
And we're going to actually
enumerate acyclic paths,
cuz it's actually very
small number of those.
If you think about it, there's only
nine possible numbers to jump to.
So what is the longest possible
acyclic path, 9, right?
That's the longest possible,
actually eight jumps, but
nine numbers that we would visit.
That's the longest possible path, so
we want to list out all of those
acyclic paths from a starting number.